_pages/about.md, before:

---
layout: about
title: about
permalink: /
<<<<<<< HEAD
subtitle: Evolutionary biophysicist
=======
subtitle: <a href='#'>Affiliations</a>. Address. Contacts. Motto. Etc.
>>>>>>> 97f78e5f (Update about.md (#2679))

profile:
  align: right
  image: shake.jpg
  image_circular: false # crops the image to make it circular
  more_info: >
    <p>Christian Macdonald, Ph.D.</p>
    <p><i>he/him/his</i></p>
    <p>Postdoctoral Scholar (F32 NRSA)</p>
    <p>christian.macdonald (at) ucsf.edu</p>

news: true # includes a list of news items
selected_papers: false # includes a list of papers marked as "selected={true}"
social: true # includes social icons at the bottom of the page
---

I graduated from Arizona State University with degrees in Mathematics and Biochemistry, where I conducted research in the total synthesis of marine natural products with Dr. George Pettit. Afterwards, I attended the University of Michigan for my Ph.D. in Biophysics. In the [Stockbridge](https://lsa.umich.edu/mcdb/people/faculty/stockbr.html) lab, I studied the evolution and function of bacterial membrane proteins involved in xenobiotic resistance, whether as fluoride channels or efflux transporters.

I am currently a member of the [Fraser](https://fraserlab.com/) and [Coyote-Maestas](https://www.wcoyotelab.com/) labs at UCSF, where I am using high-throughput functional genomics and structural approaches to understand the biophysics of protein evolution in contexts including antibiotic resistance, membrane protein folding and biogenesis, and kinase signalling. I love to tinker: with ideas as well as tools. I am currently spending some time in the [Raman lab](https://www.ramanlaboratory.org/) at UW-Madison as a visitor.

Outside of lab, I enjoy books, music, being outdoors and/or on a bike, and drinking normal amounts of coffee.

I am supported by a Kirschstein NRSA (F32) fellowship from [NIH/NIGMS](https://www.nigms.nih.gov/).

Commit message:

Moved specific information from config to about (#2985)
Moved news and latest posts related information from `_config.yml` to
`_about.md` page.

Signed-off-by: George Araújo <george.gcac@gmail.com>

_pages/about.md, after:

---
layout: about
title: about
permalink: /
<<<<<<< HEAD
subtitle: Evolutionary biophysicist
=======
subtitle: <a href='#'>Affiliations</a>. Address. Contacts. Motto. Etc.
>>>>>>> 97f78e5f (Update about.md (#2679))

profile:
  align: right
  image: shake.jpg
  image_circular: false # crops the image to make it circular
  more_info: >
    <p>Christian Macdonald, Ph.D.</p>
    <p><i>he/him/his</i></p>
    <p>Postdoctoral Scholar (F32 NRSA)</p>
    <p>christian.macdonald (at) ucsf.edu</p>

<<<<<<< HEAD
news: true # includes a list of news items
selected_papers: false # includes a list of papers marked as "selected={true}"
=======
selected_papers: true # includes a list of papers marked as "selected={true}"
>>>>>>> 0b3f19df (Moved specific information from config to about (#2985))
social: true # includes social icons at the bottom of the page

announcements:
  enabled: true # includes a list of news items
  scrollable: true # adds a vertical scroll bar if there are more than 3 news items
  limit: 5 # leave blank to include all the news in the `_news` folder

latest_posts:
  enabled: true
  scrollable: true # adds a vertical scroll bar if there are more than 3 new posts items
  limit: 3 # leave blank to include all the blog posts
---

I graduated from Arizona State University with degrees in Mathematics and Biochemistry, where I conducted research in the total synthesis of marine natural products with Dr. George Pettit. Afterwards, I attended the University of Michigan for my Ph.D. in Biophysics. In the [Stockbridge](https://lsa.umich.edu/mcdb/people/faculty/stockbr.html) lab, I studied the evolution and function of bacterial membrane proteins involved in xenobiotic resistance, whether as fluoride channels or efflux transporters.

I am currently a member of the [Fraser](https://fraserlab.com/) and [Coyote-Maestas](https://www.wcoyotelab.com/) labs at UCSF, where I am using high-throughput functional genomics and structural approaches to understand the biophysics of protein evolution in contexts including antibiotic resistance, membrane protein folding and biogenesis, and kinase signalling. I love to tinker: with ideas as well as tools. I am currently spending some time in the [Raman lab](https://www.ramanlaboratory.org/) at UW-Madison as a visitor.

Outside of lab, I enjoy books, music, being outdoors and/or on a bike, and drinking normal amounts of coffee.

I am supported by a Kirschstein NRSA (F32) fellowship from [NIH/NIGMS](https://www.nigms.nih.gov/).
